   GArNet can optimize mutation combination by adopting the following calculation steps: 
 running short generation of virtual evolution by GAOptimizer and selection of mutations 
 by summation of the results based on network theory.The mutation candidates were selected
 from the libraries containing homologs of sequence of target protein. 
 Currently, three selection pressure (HiSol, REU and both of the scores) can be used for the optimization (20250210). 
 In the new version, GArNet-ver2, we implemented a fitness function, -ESM, which selects as the elite the offspring 
 whose ESM embedding has the shortest Euclidean distance to one of the native sequences stored in the folder specified by “-DIR” (260131). 
 The program was developed by H. Ozawa. A new fitness function (-ESM) was implemented by A. Urushinata.

 Required Python Libraries and Dependencies
•	Python 3.11.7
•	Pyrosetta4: Rosetta’s Python interface (requires a Rosetta license and installation).
•	BioPython (version 1.83) (Bio): For parsing sequence alignments. 
•	Numpy (version 1.26.4): For numerical computations. 
•	Networkx (version 3.1): For network analysis. 
•	Matplotlib (version 3.8): For network visualization.
•	MAFFT (version 7.525) (external tool, must be installed on the system for sequence alignment).
•	Scipy (version 1.11.4), if not included with numpy/matplotlib distributions, may be required for polyfit (linear regression in network analysis steps).
•	(only for GArNet-ver2) Requirement of installation of esm. The procedures how to install esm and torch were referred from the following url: https://github.com/facebookresearch/esm
•	(only for GArNet-ver2) Pandas: For handling embeddings generated by esm



 
